Let's move on to pressable.
So pressable is
a relatively new component.
It was introduced in React Native 63.
And it's a more versatile alternative to
the touchable opacity such as a highlight.
So, usually, people tend to use
touchable opacity because it gives you
some quick interaction feedback for free.
The problem with that is
it's very distinctive.
So you can almost tell which apps are
built with React Native by the touchable
opacity, because people
use the default values.
So you can either use touchable
opacity but reduce the active opacity.
Or actually what is recommended is
that we all switch to using pressable.
So, in the future, I think the touchable
components are going to be deprecated.
So in my applications,
I only use pressable.
So pressable is very similar
to touchable opacity.
It has all the same events, but
you can explicitly style the pressed and
not pressed state.
So the pressable component knows
whether it's pressed or not so
you can apply styles.
And I've added an example here.
If you want it to have the same
effect as touchable opacity but
using pressable you can
use this component.
So I've called it presser area and
basically what this does is you can use
it this it applies the pressed state so
when you are pressed,
it applies the opacity 9.9.
Otherwise, it doesn't do anything.
And the effect is very similar to
what the touchable opacity does, but
it's actually the same as what
the touchable opacity does.
And this file here is just to make
sure that we also apply styles.
Cool, and you stayed, if you remember
is one of the React hooks and
we used a short and
we use it to store the selected value.
All right, let's start by creating
a typescript type for the emoji option.
So usually in TypeScript projects,
I create a types file.
So in source let's create types.ts.
I'm just going to copy this.
And in here we're going to export
a type mood option type, and
we basically typed the emoji and
the description.
So this is so that if we use
the same type in say various files,
we have one source of truth for
the type definition.
Now, next up let's import
this type in our mood picker.
So, in mood picker, we will import mood,
option type from types,
and we can actually explicitly type
these mood options if you wanted to.
So mood, option type.
Okay, so now we want to use state
variable for the selected mood.
So inside of component let's do a const,
selected mood, set selected mood and
this is a React use state.
And no initial value.
Now the question becomes how do we
tell TypeScript that we want this to
be of type mood option type?
And actually the way we do this is
just after you state and before
the parentheses we will add some angle
brackets and we place the typing here.
So now when you hover over selected mood,
it actually tells you that here it's
either mood option type, or undefined.
So next up let's import
pressable from React Native, and
let's wrap each of these
texts inside a pressable.
And on press.
Let's set selection need
to be the current option.